[docs][recipes] Transforming images with GraphQL (#20952)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/recipes/transforming-data.md

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with `gatsby-config.js` and an `index.js` page
- The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed and added to the plugins array in `gatsby-config`
- A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`
- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src/images` folder

### Directions

1. 

Edit your gatsby-config.js file to source images and configure plugins for Gatsby's GraphQL data layer. A common approach is to source them from an images directory using the gatsby-source-filesystem plugin:

```JavaScript:title=gatsby-config.js

 plugins: [
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
     options: {
       name: `images`,
       path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
     },
   },
   `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
   `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
 ],
```

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

### Prerequisites

> - A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with `gatsby-config.js` and an `index.js` page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a `gatsby-config.js` file and an `index.js` page
```

- The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed
- A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`
- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src/images` folder

### Directions

1.

Edit your gatsby-config.js file to source images and configure plugins for Gatsby's GraphQL data layer. A common approach is to source them from an images directory using the gatsby-source-filesystem plugin:

```JavaScript:title=gatsby-config.js

 plugins: [
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
     options: {
       name: `images`,
       path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
     },
   },
   `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
   `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
 ],
```

> 2. You would then need to create a query for your image that specifies all parameters that the gatsby image requires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Query your image using GraphQL.
```

> Note the `gatsby-source-filesystem` path pointing to the location of images in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `relativePath` is relative to the path you configured in `gatsby-source-filesystem`.
```

> Note: You can find these and other parameters in your GraphQL playground located at `http://localhost:8000/__graphql`

Reviewer: Perhaps this note should go below the query?

```query {
     file(relativePath: { eq: "gatsby-astronaut.png" }) {
       childImageSharp {
         // highlight-next-line
         fluid(grayscale: true) {
           ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

> Note: The relative path is the image path that you configured in `gatsby-source-filesystem`.

Reviewer: I think it makes more sense to put this up top since you allude to it when mentioning that path.

> Note: The relative path is the image path that you configured in `gatsby-source-filesystem`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ```JavaScript

Reviewer: I'm not sure this code snippet belongs here? We have the config in step 1 and the query in step 2. I believe this can be removed.

module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Your Site Name`,
  },
  plugins: [
    //highlight-start
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
      options: {
        name: `src`,
        path: `${__dirname}/src/`,
      },
    },
    //highlight-end
  ],
}
```

> 3. Next import the image from the "gatsby-image" line listed below

Reviewer: This step does more than importing. It would good to be more explicit and talk the user through the code snippet. Also note that we're not importing the image, we're importing a component for displaying the image. The image comes from the query.

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

> `gatsby-image` is a plugin designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp] `/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/` to optimize image loading for your sites.

Reviewer 2: did you mean a link here?

```suggestion
`gatsby-image` is a plugin designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) to optimize image loading for your sites.
```

> `gatsby-image` is a React component designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp] `/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/` to easily and completely optimize image loading for your sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gatsby-image` is a plugin designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp] `/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/` to optimize image loading for your sites.
```
The distinction here is a bit confusing. `gatsby-image` includes a react component, `Img`, that you can use. However, `gatsby-image` itself is a plugin.

Author: Should I also change that here https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-image/

Reviewer: Was just noticing that. I think that page could use some updating, but let's do that in a separate PR.

Author: Awesome!!

### Prerequisites

- A Gatsby site with `gatsby-config.js` and an `index.js` page

> - The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed and added to the plugins array in `gatsby-config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed and added to the plugins array in `gatsby-config`
```
Should this be a pre-req? Or is it worth including the config example?

Reviewer 3: Compare it to the other image recipes: they should be consistent with one another.

Author: This is consistent with other image recipes

- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src` folder

### Directions

> 1. Set up a [GraphQL query]`/docs/graphql-reference/` and either pass it into a component as props or write it directly in the component. One technique is to leverage the <code>[useStaticQuery]`/docs/use-static-query/`</code> hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up a [GraphQL query](/docs/graphql-reference/) and either pass it into a component as props or write it directly in the component. One technique is to leverage the [useStaticQuery](/docs/use-static-query/)hook.
```

> Common GraphQL queries for sourcing images include `file` from [gatsby-source-filesystem]`/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/`, and both `imageSharp` and `allImageSharp` from [gatsby-plugin-sharp]`/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/`, but ultimately the options available to you will depend on your content sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Common GraphQL queries for sourcing images include `file` from [gatsby-source-filesystem](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/), and both `imageSharp` and `allImageSharp` from [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/), but ultimately the options available to you will depend on your content sources.
```

> Common GraphQL queries for sourcing images include `file` from [gatsby-source-filesystem]`/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/`, and both `imageSharp` and `allImageSharp` from [gatsby-plugin-sharp]`/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/`, but ultimately the options available to you will depend on your content sources.

Reviewer: Because we're talking about gatsby-image it would be good to include that in the GraphQL query options. Perhaps we could show an example? Something like:
```
file(relativePath: { eq: "default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    fixed(width: 400, height: 400) {
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
    }
  }
}
```

Reviewer 3: I'd also recommend keeping in mind the recipe format, which is focused on actionable steps. Explanations and reasoning are more in the realm of guides and tutorials (and links to Additional Resources at the end can help lead users in that direction)

2. Use the grayscale query option in `gatsby-plugin-sharp` settings in `gatsby-config.js,`this applies to both _fluid_ and _fixed_ images:

`grayscale` (bool, default: false)

```JavaScript

> fixed(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fixed(
```
Can we include more context here? Where does this go? What is it doing?

 grayscale: true
)
```

3. Run `gatsby develop` to start the development server.

4. View your image in the browser: `http://localhost:8000/`

### Additional resources

> - API docs, including grayscale and duotone query tips: [/docs/gatsby-image/#shared-query-parameters](/docs/gatsby-image/#shared-query-parameters)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API docs, including grayscale and duotone query tips](/docs/gatsby-image/#shared-query-parameters)
```

> - Gatsby Image docs: [/packages/gatsby-image/](/packages/gatsby-image/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  [Gatsby Image docs](/packages/gatsby-image/)
```

> - Image processing examples: [https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/image-processing](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/image-processing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Image processing examples](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/image-processing)
```

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

### Prerequisites

- A Gatsby site with `gatsby-config.js` and an `index.js` page
- The `gatsby-transformer-sharp` plugin installed
- The `gatsby-plugin-sharp` plugin installed

> - A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`

Author: Would you suggest I remove line 65 and just keep 62-64?

> - A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`

Reviewer 3: No, I would recommend keeping this in.

- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src` folder

### Directions

> 1. Make sure that the config file has the correct information.

Reviewer 3: Users aren't going to know what makes config file information correct, so you need to guide them. It would be more successful to explain what's in the following code example:

"Edit your `gatsby-config.js` file to source images for Gatsby's GraphQL data layer. A common approach is to source them from an images directory using the `gatsby-source-filesystem` plugin:"

Author: Thank you!! I've added this in.

```JavaScript:title=gatsby-config.js

 plugins: [
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
     options: {
       name: `images`,
       path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
     },
   },
   `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
   `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
 ],
```

> Note: Note the gatsby src system path

Reviewer 3: This is a little vague, and would benefit from more detail to motivate why it's here. We also capitalize Gatsby per the Style Guide:
```suggestion
Note the Gatsby `src` system path pointing to the location of images in your project.
```

> 2.

Reviewer 3: What is this step about, and where does this code go?

Even though recipes are concise and short, it still helps to set up a step so the user knows what the code is intended to do, and where they'd put it in their project. To illustrate the example, show a trimmed down React component file so the user can recognize what to do with the query; otherwise, it can be too abstract for people to follow along. There's a `my-dogs.js` page component example on the `Using gatsby-image` guide on step 4 under the first Egghead video, complete with syntax highlighting to draw emphasis on the query: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/using-gatsby-image

Syntax highlighting is outlined in the Style Guide: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#code-formatting-line-highlighting

Do you have a working example for this? You can glean information from that to apply to the recipe and help users follow what you're doing.

```query {
     file(relativePath: { eq: "gatsby-astronaut.png" }) {
       childImageSharp {

>          fluid(grayscale: true) {

Reviewer 3: This would be a good line to highlight using the method outlined in the Style Guide, since it's where the grayscale magic really happens.

           ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

> Note: The relative path is the path that you config in gatsby src system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: The relative path is the image path that you configured in `gatsby-config.js`.
```

3. Next import image from "gatsby-image" line at the top

>  <Img fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid}/>

Reviewer 3: This step would also benefit from a complete React component example since users likely won't know where this code goes otherwise. There's another example on the `Using gatsby-image` guide, see Step 5 where they add the package and implement the `<Img>` component in the same file: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/using-gatsby-image

Note, any code blocks should also be written in triple backticks -- having the docs site running locally can help you identify formatting.

> Note: `gatsby-image` is not a plugin. It gets installed but is just a component that you import. `transformer-sharp` and `plugin-sharp` have to be included as plugins.

Reviewer 3: I feel like this line is going to confuse users. I know it came up in discussion, but I'd omit it since the plugin install part has already occurred by this point and users won't really know why it's being brought up.

4. Run `gatsby develop` to start the development server.

5. View your image in the browser: `http://localhost:8000/`

### Additional resources

- [API docs, including grayscale and duotone query tips](/docs/gatsby-image/#shared-query-parameters)

> - [Gatsby Image docs](/packages/gatsby-image/)

Reviewer 3: The actual doc on Gatsby Image is probably a better starting point than the package README, since it pulls together information from all of the additional necessary plugins (`gatsby-plugin-sharp` and `gatsby-transformer-sharp`) that had information scattered around before. That's a workflow we went through recently on the learning team:
```suggestion
- [Gatsby Image docs](/docs/gatsby-image/)
```

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with `gatsby-config.js` and an `index.js` page
- The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed and added to the plugins array in `gatsby-config`
- A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`
- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src/images` folder

### Directions

> 1. Make sure that the config file has the correct information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. 
```
I'd remove this. The "Edit" line below is more explicit.

Edit your gatsby-config.js file to source images and configure plugins for Gatsby's GraphQL data layer. A common approach is to source them from an images directory using the gatsby-source-filesystem plugin:

```JavaScript:title=gatsby-config.js

 plugins: [
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
     options: {
       name: `images`,
       path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
     },
   },
   `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
   `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
 ],
```

Note the `gatsby-source-filesystem` path pointing to the location of images in your project.

2.

```query {
     file(relativePath: { eq: "gatsby-astronaut.png" }) {
       childImageSharp {
         fluid(grayscale: true) {
           ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

> Note: The relative path is the image path that you configured in `gatsby-config.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The relative path is the image path that you configured in `gatsby-config.js`.
```
I think it might be more helpful to specifically call out `gatsby-source-filesystem`? It's possible they'll have other paths configured for other plugins.

- [Tutorial on transforming Markdown to HTML](/tutorial/part-six/#transformer-plugins) using `gatsby-transformer-remark`
- Browse available transformer plugins in the [Gatsby plugin library](/plugins/?=transformer)

## Transforming images into grayscale using GraphQL

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a `gatsby-config.js` file and an `index.js` page
- The `gatsby-image`, `gatsby-transformer-sharp`, and `gatsby-plugin-sharp` packages installed
- A source plugin installed, such as `gatsby-source-filesystem`
- An image (`.jpg`, `.png`, `.gif`, `.svg`, etc.) in the `src/images` folder

### Directions

1. Edit your `gatsby-config.js` file to source images and configure plugins for Gatsby's GraphQL data layer. A common approach is to source them from an images directory using the `gatsby-source-filesystem` plugin:

```JavaScript:title=gatsby-config.js

 plugins: [
   {
     resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
     options: {
       name: `images`,
       path: `${__dirname}/src/images`,
     },
   },
   `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
   `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
 ],
```

> 2. Query your image using GraphQL.

Reviewer 3: The important part of this step is that it's querying an image and applying a grayscale treatment to it, so you should call this out:
```suggestion
2. Query your image using GraphQL and apply a grayscale transformation to the image inline.
```
Laurie's comment about the relative file path could be added here too.

```query {
     file(relativePath: { eq: "gatsby-astronaut.png" }) {
       childImageSharp {
         // highlight-next-line
         fluid(grayscale: true) {
           ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
         }
       }
     }
   }
```

> The `relativePath` is relative to the path you configured in `gatsby-source-filesystem`.

Reviewer: I'd move just this sentence up to the top as part of the instructions for step 2. It's helpful to give context to relativePath before we see the code example.

Note: You can find these and other parameters in your GraphQL playground located at `http://localhost:8000/__graphql`

> 3. Next import component for displaying the image from the "gatsby-image" line listed below than return the image in the layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next import the `Img` component from  "gatsby-image". You'll use this inside your JSX to display the image.
```

```JavaScript:title=src/pages/my-dogs.js

import React from "react"
import { useStaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
import Layout from "../components/layout"
// highlight-next-line
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default () => {
  const data = useStaticQuery(graphql`
    query MyQuery {
      file(relativePath: { eq: "images/corgi.jpg" }) {
        childImageSharp {
          # Specify the image processing specifications right in the query.
          fluid {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  return (
    <Layout>
      <h1>I love my corgi!</h1>
      // highlight-start
      <Img
        fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid}
        alt="A corgi smiling happily"
      />
      // highlight-end
    </Layout>
  )
}
```

4. Run `gatsby develop` to start the development server.

> 5. View your image in the browser: `http://localhost:8000/`

Reviewer 3: The example points to a `my-dogs.js` page, so the URL should include `/my-dogs` to reduce cognitive overhead. Alternatively, you could make the example use `src/pages/index.js` to have it point to the homepage.
